The great thing about these
filters is that the user can
select one of the parameters,
in this case the exposure,
and do adjustments on it.
Those adjustments are then
fed back into the RAW filter,
and as you can see,
The resulting image is the result of
the exposure being dropped is dimmed.
This can all happen real time because
we're using Core Image filters to
implement all of these parameters.
So that's hopefully just a
good introduction on what you
can do with the CI RAW filter.
Let me just show you how
easy it is to do in code.
Again, unlike normal CI filters,
you do not locate them by name.
You just call CI filter,
filter with image URL.
You specify the URL.
And in this case,
the options dictionary is nil.
You can specify other parameters,
potentially.
The next thing we want to do in this
particular example is to show you
what code is needed to dim the image.
In this case, we're creating a double,
which is the value minus one,
and we're setting that to
be the input EV adjustment.
Now,
this kind of seems like a boring example,
adjusting the EV on an image,
but in fact, this is one of the great
things about RAW files,
is with RAW files,
there's extra content in an image
beyond the normal clipped range.
And by adjusting the
exposure down in a RAW file,
you can actually reveal all
sorts of content in the image
that may have been not visible,
like detail in clouds, for example.
Last but not least,
we take the image and get the
output image from that filter,
which we can then display on the screen.
So that's a brief introduction.
I hope I've whet your appetite on how
to use RAW processing using Core Image.
Next, I'd like to bring up Ralph Brunner,
who will talk in some more detail
about how to write your own kernels.
Good morning.
I'm going to talk about how
to make your own image unit.
And first I'd like to point out the
image unit tutorial which you'll find
on your Leopard and your Snow Leopard
disc is a document that kind of
goes into all the details about
which entry goes into which P-list,
how to make the project, you know,
all the administrative part
of making an image unit.
So I'm not going to
talk a lot about that,
just that's the document to read and,
you know, follow the steps there.
Fundamentally, to make your own filter,
there are two ingredients.
One is the actual kernel,
or more than one kernel,
that does the per-pixel processing.
And that is written in
the CI kernel language,
which is essentially the
OpenGL shading language.
And if you're not familiar with that,
think of it as C with a
vector data type added to it.
The second part that you need is
the Objective-C code that wraps
the kernels into the full filter.
This is the code that knows how to call
the kernels and it contains additional
data like what kind of inputs need to
be exposed and these kind of things.
You then package those
two pieces together,
either in a custom filter that
you compile into your app,
or you make an image unit,
which is a plug-in so that all other apps
that support image units can host them.
And it's a great way for
debugging your filters,
because when you make an image unit,
it will show up in Core Image Funhouse,
it will show up in Quartz Composer,
and it's very easy to
try it out and find bugs.
Okay, so the example I'm going to talk
about today is Image Straighten.
So imagine you're making an
app that deals with photos,
and every now and then you
get a photo like the one here,
which is kind of an exaggerated case.
So your horizon isn't straight.
How do you make the horizon straight?
Well, you rotate the image until
the horizon is straight,
and because now it's no
longer a rectilinear image,
you find some cropped rectangle inside,
and you crop the image to the new bounds,
and you have a slightly better image.
So cropping is easy.
Rotating is easy, too.
It's these two lines of code here.
Essentially what you do,
you create a CG-affined transform
with the rotation angle and you
call image by applying transform
and you get a new image out which
has the appropriate rotation.
However, that's too easy for what I'm
going to talk about today,
so we're going to aim
a little bit higher.
The reason is, if you're doing this,
you get the default interpolation method,
which is linear interpolation.
And if, let's say,
you're making an app that is
geared towards pro photographers,
you might want to do a
high-quality rotation.
Instead of just using
linear interpolation.
Oops, that was too fast.
The Cialanco Scale Transform that's
built into the system does
a high quality image scale.
However, there is no high quality
rotation filter in the system.
And the next 10 minutes I'm
going to essentially implement
one and show you how to do this.
If you would like to learn
more about image resampling,
I would recommend this book,
Digital Image Warping by George Wilberg.
It goes into great detail how all these
sampling methods work and why I'm,
what the things I'm going to talk
about in the next few minutes
and why this is a good idea.
So, it's my favorite book on the topic,
so go get it.
You're going to use a result from 1986,
kind of the golden years
of computer graphics,
which says you can decompose a
rotation into three shear transforms.
And so how that works is you take the
image and you shift each scan line
to the right by a certain amount.
Then you take that result and you shift
each scan row by a certain amount.
And then the last step,
you shift each scan line again,
and that gives you a rotation.
And so why would you do it that way?
Well, for one, it saves computation.
Doing the filter call we're looking
at would be 64 vector multiplies per
pixel if you do it in a single pass.
However, it's 24 total if you
do it in three passes.
And secondly,
the implementation is much simpler
because each filter step you're really
just moving individual scan lines around.
Okay, yeah,
so this is the filter will take the
image and produce the rotated image.
So the immediate phases will not be
visible to the client of your filter.
So how do you do this?
We're going to use the
four-lobed Lancash interpolator.
And again, Wilbur's book talks about in
great detail how that works.
So you have your scan
line full of pixels.
And how do you shift a scan of pixel
by a fractional amount to the right?
Well, it all comes down to,
can I compute a value in
between two sample points?
So how do you do this?
Well, fundamentally,
you're looking at a local neighborhood.
In our case,
we're going to take four pixels to
the left and four pixels to the right
to the point we want to reconstruct.
And then we take our Lankos kernel
and align it so that its zero
point aligns to the point where
we want to reconstruct our data,
the green point down there.
And then for each of the
neighboring sample points where
we actually have the data,
we're going to evaluate that
kernel and this gives us a weight.
So in the end,
we're reading eight pixels,
we multiply each of these
RGB values by some weight
which comes from this function,
and then add them all up.
Okay, so how do you implement this?
So, first of all, we're kind of lazy,
so we're writing only a single
kernel for the shared transform,
and essentially we use the
different parameters to do the
horizontal and the vertical shifts.
The Lancashire function itself,
we're going to put that
into a lookup table,
because it's quite a few trigonometric
operations to evaluate it,
and we don't want to do that per pixel.
Now, as I mentioned before,
to reconstruct one pixel,
you need eight neighbors,
and therefore you need eight
coefficients for each location.
You could put these eight values
into kind of a linear table and
read eight pixels and also read
eight values from that lookup table,
but because we are working with images,
so we actually have four
values in a single pixel.
We have red, green, blue, and alpha.
So we kind of can save a little
bit here by packing this data
into an RGBA floating point image,
and therefore a single pixel read
gives us RGBA or four arbitrary values.
So to get our eight coefficients,
we do two lookups.
We get the first four from one pixel
and the other four from the other pixel,
so we save quite a bit
of texture reads here.
So the lookup table is kind of
laid out in memory as I have
a little diagram down there.
So there's, it's 250, sorry,
512 pixels wide and 2 pixels high,
and the 2 pixels high are the total
of 8 coefficients that you need.
Okay, so how does that look in code?
This is the kernel that
does the shear transform.
Let me start here.
The kernel returns a vec4 value.
This is the RGBA value that gets
returned for a single pixel location.
And it takes four parameters.
The first two are a
sampler for the source.
That's the image we're
going to do the rotate on.
And the second one is
the LanCOS lookup table.
You notice there is this keyword,
underscore, underscore, table.
And what that does,
it prevents Core Image from
inlining any world transform
into its sampler transform,
which for a lookup table
doesn't make much sense,
so that's why that's there.
The other two parameters are
two two-dimensional vectors,
a direction vector and a shear vector.
The direction vector is either 1, 0 or 0,
1, depending on which
direction you're working on,
horizontal or vertical path.
And the shear vector
contains the shift value,
how much you shift a scan line relative
to its neighboring scan line or scan row.
Fundamentally,
the kernel has three blocks.
The first one is we take our
destination coordinate and
compute the source location.
Where do we need to read the pixel from?
And you see this little floor instruction
there to kind of round to the pixel
location that is the neighboring sample
point that we actually have in memory.
The second block is then compute
the index into the lookup table
and then do these two lookups,
Z0 and Z1,
to get our total of eight coefficients.
And the last piece is we're doing
eight reads from the source image,
which are the four pixels to the
left and four pixels to the right.
You will notice I'm using F is
that coordinate that we used
the floor operator before.
And I use that direction vector
to get our values to the neighbor.
So at that point,
we're reading either to the
left or to the right or north
or south of the pixel location.
And yeah, then we multiply those
with all the coefficients,
add them all up, and we're done.
So, how do you apply the kernel?
This is now in the Objective-C part,
excerpt from the output image method.
And what you're essentially seeing,
apply is called three times.
These are the three passes we need to do.
In each pass,
we pass in a different set of parameters,
the horizontal, the vertical,
and then again the horizontal
pass with the shift values.
There is also this
interesting little piece,
Apply Option User Info.
And that's essentially a context
information that you can provide.
It can be pointed to arbitrary data.
And at a later point, you will get,
for the region of interest function,
a callback.
And that's the value you
get back at that point.
So we'll talk about that
in a couple minutes.
So just keep in mind that each of these
passes pass in additional information
that you can use at render time.
And the last point I would like to point
out here is the apply option definition.
So you define--get--at that point,
specify the domain of definition
for your output image.
And let me explain what the
domain of definition is.
The domain of definition is just like,
you know, in math.
It's the area of your
function that is not zero.
And in this case, it's a shape.
It's the area of your
image that outside of it,
all, your kernel will evaluate
to zero outside this area.
And this allows the Core Image runtime
to do optimizations.
Now, keep in mind,
DOD that you specify is an upper bound.
So you can, for example,
you could just use a
bounding box if you wish.
So for our shear transformation,
this looks like this.
So this is our first path.
And the domain of definition is a shape.
So this is how the shapes look like.
So to take the source shape,
you have to return a destination shape
that has essentially a slanted rectangle.
And in code,
you ask the source for its definition,
which is a CI filter shape,
and then we transform it
by a CG-affine transform,
and that affine transform I'm making
is essentially the shear transform,
and that's how you get
your domain of definition.
If you don't specify a
domain of definition,
that is okay.
It just means that whenever a
piece of the image is drawn,
Core Image has to call your kernel.
And you can imagine if you
have a lot of zeros out there,
there's optimization
opportunities that you miss.
For kernels that don't do
anything with geometry,
typically the domain of definition
of the output is the same as the
domain of definition of the input.
So you just ask source domain
of definition and then pass
that back and you call apply.
Like a U transform doesn't
change the shape of the image,
so there's no need to do
anything special there.
And domain of definition can
sometimes be rather nasty to code.
It is okay to make the domain
of definition a bit bigger than
what would be theoretically pure.
As long as it's not too big,
it's slightly less
efficient but not tragic.
Kind of the conceptual opposite
to the domain of definition is
the region of interest function.
And that's that callback
I was talking about before.
Essentially this is the runtime
asks your filter question,
which is,
If I want to compute this
area in the destination,
which part of the source do I need?
And this allows things like tiling
and efficient use of resources
if that is implemented correctly.
Well, in our case, it is a parallelogram.
And the region of interest function
actually doesn't return a shape,
it just returns a CG rectangle.
So you'll return a
bounding box of the area.
So let me repeat that because
that's a really good source for
bugs when you get that wrong.
The question you have to
answer is to render a certain
rectangle in the destination,
which part of the source is
needed to perform that operation,
so that we can upload the proper part
of the textures onto the graphics
card and these kind of things.
Okay, so here is the ROI function
for our little rotate filter.
You get called back,
it's called region off,
and you get called
back with a sampler ID.
That's the number of the sampler that
you have in your kernel function.
So in our case,
sampler ID 0 is the image we
rotate and sampler ID 1 is
the Lancashire lookup table.
Destination Rect,
this is the rectangle you want to render.
And UserInfo is that pointer that we
specified back when we called Apply.
In our case, that was this
two-dimensional shear vector.
What this function does is,
if the sampler ID is 1,
you simply return the 512 by 2 pixels
full rectangle for the lookup table.
So, to compute every pixel,
we need the entire
lookup table available.
For the actual image that we're
doing the shear transform on,
we again create a CG-affined
transform with the shear vector we
passed in from the user info data,
and then apply that to a rectangle,
and we get a new rectangle back.
One important piece at the very end,
we take this rectangle and we
enlarge it either in the horizontal
or the vertical direction,
depending on which path we're working on,
by four pixels.
And so that's an interesting detail.
Remember,
we're not just doing a shear transform,
which turns a rectangle
into a parallelogram.
We're also using neighboring pixels,
up to four pixels to the left,
four pixels to the right.
That's why we expand this rectangle
here by another four pixels
in the appropriate direction,
to make sure that all
the data that we needed,
that we need slightly
outside our working area,
that is going to be read by the kernel.
And if you ever forget stuff like that,
what you will see if your image gets big,
you will see little,
typically black lines
around tile boundaries.
Because Core Image loaded a tile for you,
which I thought was the right size,
but you're reading slightly outside.
You're getting zeros back,
and then you get grayish or black
lines around tile boundaries.
OK, so is it all worth it?
Well, it turns out it's actually pretty
hard to show if you're like
30 feet away from the screen.
So I'm doing something here to
kind of exaggerate how this looks.
I'm taking this image and I'm
rotating it by five degrees and
then another by five degrees,
and again and again, nine times.
And what you end up with is an
image which is kind of blurry.
So I'm exaggerating by using
the fact that I could accumulate
errors to make this really visible.
The first step was just
using linear interpolation.
And now I'm using the
Lancos interpolator,
doing the same thing,
five degrees each time,
and you get an image which
is substantially sharper.
So if you look at zoomed-in version,
the eye is a blurry mess in the
case of linear interpolation.
And in the Lancos case,
it is actually pretty nice that
the scales are still there,
the wrinkles around the eye and so on,
so quite a bit of detail and
a bit of detail got preserved.
Every now and then we get asked why does
Core Image doesn't support a bicubic
interpolator because it's really popular
in a bunch of image processing programs.
And, well,
the nice thing about the implementation
we're having here is it takes
the kernel as a lookup table.
So we don't have to use
the Lancus function.
You can use anything.
Just, in fact,
when you look at the sample code,
there's a piece of code that is commented
out which does the bicubic interpolation
and fills in the table appropriately.
So if you do that the same way,
What you're seeing here is that the
result of the bicubing interpolation
is kind of over sharpened,
you know,
local contrast kind of went wacky.
And the reason is the...
The actual kernel has kind
of exaggerated side lobes,
which causes a bit of
a sharpening effect,
and if I do that enough,
you can exaggerate that way.
So there's nothing wrong with, you know,
making images sharp.
However,
I would argue this shouldn't be a
side effect of the rotate filter.
If you want sharpness,
you should use a sharpen filter,
therefore you can control
where it happens and how
much sharpness you introduce,
and it's not a side effect
of a geometry operation.
So the last thing
I would like to show is,
well, doing this rotation nine times is
really just for illustration purposes,
and you should never do this because
clearly there are losses and there is,
you know, performance impact and
that kind of stuff.
So if I'd used the Lancashire Rotate
Filter and do it in a single pass,
how does it look like?
And people in the rows closer to
the screen will see a difference
that doing a single iteration
is still of higher quality than
doing the nine iteration step.
But the difference is now pretty subtle,
so it shows that there are losses,
but they are not that
tragic at this point.
Okay, so there's another example
I would like to talk about.
Frank was saying that Core Image does its
work in the linear working color space.
And you might think for something
simple like rotating an image,
that doesn't really matter.
Couldn't you just work in whichever
color space you are and you're done?
There is a difference,
which I'm trying to illustrate here.
I'm taking the really boring image on
the left side with green and magenta,
and I rotate it by 10 degrees.
The middle one rotates it in
the nonlinear working space,
so it's essentially in device space.
And on the right side we're using
what every Core Image is doing by
converting it to a linear color space,
rotate it,
and convert it to the target color space.
So you'll see that there are a
bunch of dark pixels in the middle.
And the reason for that is
In a nonlinear color space,
say gamma 2.2 or 1.8,
A blend between green and magenta,
or pretty much any colors that
are sufficiently far away from
each other in the color cube,
results in a color which is darker
than either of those colors.
And that's why you get these kind
of slight aliasing artifacts,
because it didn't work
in a linear color space.
So keep that in mind if you're
doing high quality image processing,
you know,
how working in a linear color space
matters even for really simple
things like rotating an image.
Okay, and with that,
I would like to ask Frank back
up to put it all together.
Thank you, Ralph.
So now for this year again,
we have a new sample code that
we would like to give you,
and it's a Core Image Editor that
kind of ties our presentation
together a little bit.
So what do we do in the CI Image Editor?
First,
we use the CI RAW filter that David was
talking about to do RAW image processing,
so better photo quality
that we get out of it.
Second, we want to use Core Animation,
the new kid on the block,
and to do a little bit nicer UI and
show you how to integrate those two.
And third, of course,
it showcases also the new rotation
filter that Ralph was just talking
about to straighten out an image.
So with that, I would like to give you
a demo of the application.
So since we are still actually
in our old application,
let me show you actually-- oops.
Let me show you why this
RAW part is so important.
This is back to the original image.
What I want to adjust actually
here is now the exposure on it.
So I need to find the exposure.
So now with this exposure address,
so this is a JPEG file.
So it's an 8-bit data source.
And what I'm trying to do now is
you see how quickly-- it's like
there's not much more detail in here.
And if I go bright, it's like, boom,
it washes out immediately to white.
That's because this is a JPEG file.
Now with our new sample code that you
find actually attached to the session,
it's available on the ADC website.
This should look a little bit different.
So we use a different image.
We use a RAW file.
Open this up here.
And you see this photo has a problem.
So we used a contractor
to get this image,
and he did a mistake.
It's easy to blame those people.
So now I'm using actually
the exposure adjust again.
[Transcript missing]
Now, as I promised,
we can straighten the image.
And this, I just grab it here and
straighten it out so that,
yeah, now it's a nice realigned.
And all these kind of things,
like you see this little glow and so on,
that is all done in Core Animation.
One of the other things that I can do
nicely with the RAW file is actually,
for instance, look at the real color
temperature setting of it.
And so we should just show off here, OK,
these are the different ones.
I just created some
scenes for doing this.
And say, OK, well,
this is actually how I want this
picture to look like if I didn't set the
white balance correctly on my camera.
And of course, we can use some effects.
And now I can make this look like
a photo from my grandparents,
kind of like from the 60s.
And since this is all
done in Core Animation,
it's also very easy for me to go like,
boom, full screen.
It nicely animates everything,
showing back, like, for instance,
this kind of stuff.
This is all happening in Core Animation.
Going back, it scales nicely.
I said I would like to
go back to the slides.
Thank you.
So let me walk you through some of
the high level aspects of the code.
So first of all, as I said,
we're using core animation.
And we're using a so
called CA tiled layer,
since we have a really large image.
This was a 12 megapixel file that
I was using in this demonstration.
And you notice that there was
little blocks basically showing up.
This is because we draw
it in little tiles.
Well,
core animation draws in little tiles.
And this allows us, first of all,
that this image gets scaled down.
So we only see basically a
representation on the screen.
It's, of course,
much smaller than the original size.
And that has a scale factor that we
can actually use from core animation
and pass this on to the CI raw filter,
which then is smart enough not
to process all the data it needs.
It actually scales it down and only
samples the points that are needed.
This gives us the nice performance
that we are looking for.
And the moment basically
I step into full screen,
I'm sure if this was really
visible here on the projector,
but you will notice that the
details all of a sudden pop up,
because now we are using a different
scale factor of the image and we'll draw
in the background with higher details.
So the user can already interact
with the image and you can,
and all the stuff is happening
nicely in the background.
Now,
how do you get the context when you want
to draw with a Core Animation layer?
That might not be as
obvious in the first place,
but Core Animation provides you, again,
a CG context.
And as I showed in the beginning,
from that,
we simply can create our CI context.
In the moment,
there is still some work that we need
to do to make it a little bit faster.
As you noticed,
it was not quite as performing
as we would like it to see.
But in Snow Leopard, we are making this,
the Quas-GL integration on this one,
even a little bit better.
Now, I can't explain everything
about Core Animation,
so please check out the
Core Animation sessions.
There's one also later on today.
Or definitely look also on the online
documentation of Core Animation.
How does the drawing code look like?
First, as I mentioned,
we get the CI context from the
CG context that gets passed in.
It's important that you
don't cache this one because
Core Animation might decide for you,
well, I need to switch the
context for each drawing.
Now I'm getting the current
transformation matrix from the context,
and that allows me to use
the scale factor from it.
Now you notice that I put
in the synchronization step.
As I mentioned, all this drawing is
happening asynchronously.
It's happening on multiple threads.
So you have to make sure that your code
for the drawing part is thread safe.
Here I use the scale factor,
and you will see in the real code
what that does to the CIRAW filter.
Taking from the CTM value
and passing it down,
and therefore the CIRAW filter only has
to process certain parts of the data.
and then I simply draw into our context.
That is as simple as it
is for the drawing part.
Now when you would use
something like GDB,
you would notice, for instance, well,
I get asked like eight times for
each tile to draw this whole image.
And you don't see, like, well,
what rectangle do I have to draw?
You don't have to care about this
because Core Animation actually sets
up in that CG context a clipping
rectangle which Core Image simply
honors and will only take basically
that tile of the image to draw.
It's that simple.
Let's work for you.
Now, how did I do these effects?
And you see here in the screenshot,
I actually used the
Image UI demo application,
from which I can actually
export my chain of filters.
So I created these effects for
like the Ansel Adams effect
or the old photo style,
and simply export them as
the CF filter generator.
And then they act as a single
filter that I simply imported
now into my application.
Now, there always comes a time when
we have to debug a problem.
We all hate it, but it happens.
It's the nature of the beast.
Now, what do you do?
Of course,
everybody knows to work with GDB,
and there's, like,
for those who want to do a little more of
the low-level stuff with the OpenGL code,
can use OpenGL Profiler and so on.
But there's one tool that I would like
to point out today that might not be
as obvious in working with Core Image,
and that is Dtrace.
And internally, we started using it for
debugging some of our stuff,
and had really great results with it.
Now, Dtrace on its own is a
little bit more complex,
so I can't give you a full overview here,
but there's plenty of sessions
on Dtrace that explain all that.
So what is Dtrace good for
in this particular scenario?
With Core Image, the nice part is,
first of all, with Dtrace,
I can do this on any
kind of client machine.
I don't need to have any kind
of special debug environment.
If I want to analyze the performance of,
like, who's getting,
actually calling my drawing code and
which context and so on I get created,
I mean, yeah, old school style.
You would put a lot of printfs in there,
and you have to recompile it and try
it on the client's machine and say,
"Ah, this is actually what the
problem is." With Dtrace,
you don't have to do that.
You can simply run on
your client machine,
and it will, with probes,
actually show you, "Okay,
that's the one who called it,
and this is actually how
often you got called,
and this is very useful information,
particularly for performance debugging,
or even, like, in general, even, like,
finding out what problems
might occur in my code."
Now,
you need to know what probes do we have.
So Core Image has a few of its
custom probes that actually are
specific to Core Image problems.
And since it's an Objective-C language
that we use for the API,
you can actually know all the probes
that you need to know in terms
of figuring out who's creating
a filter or who's rendering.
If you don't know them
because you're new to this,
you can simply use DTrace and query,
okay, give me all the probes
available in this process on a
CI context or on a CI filter,
and I can find out what probes
I have and set basically a DTrace
script that gets triggered whenever
these functions get called.
So this is just a little
appetizer for DTrace.
And yeah, just close to your heart,
this is a good debugging tool,
particularly for performance part.
So this was a lot today,
hopefully for you.
And now you want to know, OK,
what can I do next?
First of all,
we have a bunch of sample code.
It's already on your disks
in the developer examples.
Find them in the Quartz and Core Image.
In addition, we have on the ADC website,
this was often requested from last year,
our sample code that does
some CI color tracking.
It's also mentioned in the
NVIDIA book GPU Gems 3.
There's a whole article about it,
so you can learn more about something
interesting to do with Core Image.
Okay.
I would recommend playing
around with the sample apps,
concatenate filters,
create interesting effects,
don't see them as a single
instance that you want to use,
and don't just use
them for image editing,
which is the one part,
but also use them like, you know,
as we've shown,
like these little glow effects
in the UI to make your UI a
little bit more interesting.
And if you're in the business
of doing like 2D graphics,
like using quartz drawing,
we've seen some samples of people who
do like very nice stuff and actually
creating just a drawing application
and use actually these CI filters
to give a little bit more real life
scenarios by creating shadows or
blurriness to give you a depth of field.
And that's part of,
if there are more questions,
Alan Schaefer,
who is our contact for you,
you have his email right here.
You find the documentation
on our website.
And with that, I would also like to
point you out to our lab,
which is shortly after
the session downstairs,
so you can come and ask
any questions for us.
Your kernel will evaluate
to zero outside this area,
and this allows the Core Image Runtime
to do optimizations.
Now, keep in mind,
DOD that you specify is an upper bound.
So you can, for example,
just use a bounding box if you wish.
So for our shear transformation,
this looks like this.
So this is our first path.
And the domain of definition is a shape.
So this is how the shapes look like.
So to take the source shape,
you have to return a destination shape
that has essentially a slanted rectangle.
And in code,
you ask the source for its definition,
which is a CI filter shape.
And then we transform it
by a CG-affine transform.
And the affine transform I'm making
is essentially the shear transform.
And that's how you get
your domain of definition.
If you don't specify a
domain of definition,
that is okay.
It just means that whenever a
piece of the image is drawn,
Core Image has to call your kernel.
And you can imagine if you
have a lot of zeros out there,
there's optimization
opportunities that you miss.
For kernels that don't do
anything with geometry,
typically the domain of definition
of the output is the same as the
domain of definition of the input.
So you just ask source domain
of definition and then pass
that back and you call apply.
Like a U transform doesn't
change the shape of the image,
so there's no need to do
anything special there.
And domain of definition can
sometimes be rather nasty to code.
It is okay to make the domain
of definition a bit bigger than
what would be theoretically pure.
As long as it's not too big,
it's slightly less
efficient but not tragic.
Kind of the conceptual opposite
to the domain of definition is
the region of interest function.
And that's that callback
I was talking about before.
Essentially this is the runtime
asks your filter question,
which is,
If I want to compute this
area in the destination,
which part of the source do I need?
And this allows things like tiling
and efficient use of resources
if that is implemented correctly.
Well, in our case, it is a parallelogram.
And the region of interest function
actually doesn't return a shape,
it just returns a CG rectangle.
So you'll return a
bounding box of the area.
So let me repeat that because
that's a really good source for
bugs when you get that wrong.
The question you have to
answer is to render a certain
rectangle in the destination,
which part of the source is
needed to perform that operation?
So that we can upload the proper part
of the textures onto the graphics
card and these kind of things.
Okay, so here is the ROI function
for our little rotate filter.
You get called back,
it's called region off,
and you get called
back with a sampler ID.
That's the number of the sampler that
you have in your kernel function.
So in our case,
sampler ID 0 is the image we
rotate and sampler ID 1 is
the Lancashire lookup table.
Destination Rect,
this is the rectangle you want to render.
And UserInfo is that pointer that we
specified back when we called Apply.
In our case, that was this
two-dimensional shear vector.
What this function does is,
if the sampler ID is 1,
you simply return the 512 by 2 pixels
full rectangle for the lookup table.
So, to compute every pixel,
we need the entire
lookup table available.
For the actual image that we're
doing the shear transform on,
we again create a CG-affined
transform with the shear vector we
passed in from the user info data,
and then apply that to a rectangle
and we get a new rectangle back.
One important piece at the very end,
we take this rectangle and we
enlarge it either in the horizontal
or the vertical direction,
depending on which path we're working on,
by four pixels.
And so that's an interesting detail.
Remember,
we're not just doing a shear transform,
which turns a rectangle
into a parallelogram.
We're also using neighboring pixels,
up to four pixels to the left,
four pixels to the right.
That's why we expand this rectangle
here by another four pixels
in the appropriate direction,
to make sure that all
the data that we need,
if we need slightly
outside our working area,
that is going to be read by the kernel.
And if you ever forget stuff like that,
what you will see,
if your image gets big,
you will see little,
typically black lines
around tile boundaries,
because Core Image loaded a tile for you,
which I thought was the right size,
but you're reading slightly outside,
you're getting zeros,
and then you get grayish or black
lines around tile boundaries.
Okay, so...
Is it all worth it?
Well, it turns out it's actually pretty
hard to show if you're like
30 feet away from the screen.
So I'm doing something here to
kind of exaggerate how this looks.
I'm taking this image and I'm rotating
it by five degrees and then another
by five degrees and again and again,
nine times.
And what you end up with is an
image which is kind of blurry.
So I'm exaggerating,
kind of using the fact that
I can accumulate errors to
make this really visible.
If I then, the first step that was just
using linear interpolation.
And now I'm using the
Lancos interpolator,
doing the same thing,
five degrees each time,
and you get an image which
is substantially sharper.
So if you look at the zoomed in version,
the eye is a blurry mess in the
case of linear interpolation.
And in the Lancos case,
it is actually pretty nice that
the scales are still there,
the wrinkles around the eye and so on.
So quite a bit of detail got preserved.
Every now and then we get asked why does
Core Image doesn't support a bicubic
interpolator because it's really popular
in a bunch of image processing programs.
And, well,
the nice thing about the implementation
we're having here is it takes
the kernel as a lookup table.
So we don't have to use
the Lankos function.
You can use anything.
Just, in fact,
when you look at the sample code,
there's a piece of code that is commented
out which does the bicubic interpolation
and fills in the table appropriately.
So if you do that the same way,
What you're seeing here is that the
result of the bicubing interpolation
is kind of over sharpened,
you know,
local contrast kind of went wacky.
And the reason is the
The actual kernel has kind
of exaggerated side lobes,
which causes a bit of
a sharpening effect,
and if I do that enough,
you can exaggerate that way.
So there's nothing wrong with, you know,
making images sharp.
However,
I would argue this shouldn't be a
side effect of the rotate filter.
If you want sharpness,
you should use a sharpen filter,
therefore you can control
where it happens and how
much sharpness you introduce,
and it's not a side effect
of a geometry operation.
So the last thing
I would like to show is,
well, doing this rotation nine times is
really just for illustration purposes,
and you should never do this because
clearly there are losses and there is,
you know, performance impact and
that kind of stuff.
So if I'd used the Lancashire Rotate
Filter and do it in a single pass,
how does it look like?
And people in the rows closer to
the screen will see a difference
that doing a single iteration
is still of higher quality than
doing the nine iteration step.
But the difference is now pretty subtle,
so it shows that there are losses,
but they are not that
tragic at this point.
Okay, so there's another example
I would like to talk about.
Frank was saying that Core Image does its
work in the linear working color space.
And you might think for something
simple like rotating an image,
that doesn't really matter.
Couldn't you just work in whichever
color space you are and you're done?
There is a difference,
which I'm trying to illustrate here.
I'm taking the really boring image on
the left side with green and magenta,
and I rotate it by 10 degrees.
The middle one rotates it in
the nonlinear working space,
so it's essentially in device space.
And on the right side we're using
whatever Core Image is doing by
converting it to a linear color space,
rotate it and convert it
to the target color space.
So you'll see that there are a
bunch of dark pixels in the middle.
And the reason for that is, color space,
say gamma 2.2 or 1.8.
A blend between green and magenta,
or pretty much any colors that
are sufficiently far away from
each other in the color cube,
results in a color which is darker
than either of those colors.
And that's why you get these kind
of slight aliasing artifacts,
because you didn't work
in a linear color space.
So keep that in mind if you're
doing high quality image processing.
Working in a linear color space
matters even for really simple
things like rotating an image.
Okay, and with that,
I would like to ask Frank back
up to put it all together.
Thank you, Ralph.
So now for this year again,
we have a new sample code that
we would like to give you.
And it's a Core Image Editor that
kind of ties our presentation
together a little bit.
So what do we do in the CI Image Editor?
First,
we use the CI Raw filter that David was
talking about to do raw image processing,
so better photo quality
that we get out of it.
Second, we want to use Core Animation,
the new kid on the block,
to do a little bit nicer UI and
show you how to integrate those two.
And third, of course,
it showcases also the new rotation
filter that Ralph was just talking
about to straighten out an image.
So with that, I would like to give you
a demo of the application.
So since we are still actually
in our old application,
let me show you actually-- oops.
Let me show you why this
RAW part is so important.
This is back to the original image.
What I want to adjust actually
here is now the exposure on it.
So I need to find the exposure.
So now with this exposure address,
so this is a JPEG file.
So it's an 8-bit data source.
And what I'm trying to do now
is you see how quickly-- there's
not much more detail in here.
And if I go bright, it's like, boom,
it washes out immediately to white.
That's because this is a JPEG file.
Now with our new sample code that you
find actually attached to the session,
it's available on the ADC website.
This should look a little bit different.
So we use a different image.
We use a RAW file.
Open this up here.
And you see this photo has a problem.
So we used a contractor to get
this image and he did a mistake.
It's easy to blame those people.
So now I'm using actually
the exposure adjust again.
And what you see now is like
how nicely actually the face
comes out of the rock part,
in this case in Yosemite,
El Capitan that we see here.
And this is just because now
when I go a little bit higher,
you see now how the shadows
come out of the trees.
I can see more of the details
there because the RAW file has
so much more data available.
Now, as I promised,
we can straighten the image.
And this, I just grab it here and
straighten it out so that,
yeah, now it's nice and aligned.
And all these kind of things,
like you see this little glow and so on,
that is all done in Core Animation.
One of the other things that I can do
nicely with the RAW file is actually,
for instance, look at the real color
temperature setting of it.
And so we should just show off here, OK,
these are the different ones.
I just created some
scenes for doing this.
And say, OK, well,
this is actually how I want this
picture to look like if I didn't set the
white balance correctly on my camera.
And of course, we can use some effects.
And now I can make this look like
a photo from my grandparents,
kind of like from the 60s.
And since this is all
done in Core Animation,
it's also very easy for me to go like,
boom, full screen.
It nicely animates everything,
showing back, like, for instance,
this kind of stuff.
This is all happening in Core Animation.
Going back, it scales nicely.
Instead,
I would like to go back to the slides.
Thank you.
So let me walk you through some of
the high level aspects of the code.
So first of all, as I said,
we're using core animation.
And we're using a so
called CA tiled layer,
since we have a really large image.
This was a 12 megapixel file that
I was using in this demonstration.
And you notice that there was
little blocks basically showing up.
This is because we draw
it in little tiles.
Well,
core animation draws in little tiles.
And this allows us, first of all,
that this image gets scaled down.
So we only see basically a
representation on the screen.
It's, of course,
much smaller than the original size.
And that has a scale factor that we
can actually use from core animation
and pass this on to the CI raw filter,
which then is smart enough not
to process all the data it needs.
It actually scales it down and only
samples the points that are needed.
This gives us the nice performance
that we are looking for.
And the moment basically
I stepped into full screen,
I'm not sure if this was really
visible here on the projector,
but you will notice that the details
all of a sudden pop up because now
we are using a different scale factor
of the image and we'll draw in the
background with higher details.
So the user can already interact
with the image and you can,
and all the stuff is happening
nicely in the background.
Now,
how do you get the context when you want
to draw with the Core Animation layer?
That might not be as
obvious in the first place,
but Core Animation provides you, again,
a CG context.
And as I showed in the beginning,
from that,
we simply can create our CI context.
In the moment,
there is still some work that we need
to do to make it a little bit faster.
As you noticed,
it was not quite as performing
as we would like it to see.
But in Snow Leopard,
we are making the quasi-geo integration
on this one even a little bit better.
Now, I can't explain everything
about Core Animation,
so please check out the
Core Animation sessions.
There's one also later on today,
or definitely look also on the online
documentation of Core Animation.
How does the drawing code look like?
First, as I mentioned,
we get the CI context from the
CG context that gets passed in.
It's important that you
don't cache this one because
Core Animation might decide for you,
well, I need to switch the
context for each drawing.
Now I'm getting the current
transformation matrix from the context,
and that allows me to use
the scale factor from it.
Now you notice that I put
in the synchronization step.
As I mentioned, all this drawing is
happening asynchronously.
It's happening on multiple threads.
So you have to make sure that your code
for the drawing part is thread safe.
See here I use now the
scale factor that I'm,
and you will see in the real code
what that does to the CIRAW filter.
Taking from the CTM,
simply a value and passing that down
and therefore the CIRAW filter only has
to process certain parts of the data.
and then I simply draw into our context.
That is as simple as it
is for the drawing part.
Now when you would use
something like GDB,
you would notice, for instance, well,
I get asked like eight times for
each tile to draw this whole image,
and you don't see like, well,
what rectangle do I have to draw?
You don't have to care about this
because core animation actually sets up
in that CG context a clipping rectangle,
which core image simply honors,
and will only take basically
that tile of the image to draw.
It's that simple, so let's work for you.
Now, how did I do these effects?
And you see here in the screenshot,
I actually used the Image UI demo
application from which I can
actually export my chain of filters.
So I created these effects for like
either the Ansel Adams effect or the
old photo style and simply export
them as the CF filter generator.
And then they act as a single
filter that I simply imported
now into my application.
Now there always comes a time
when we have to debug a problem.
We all hate it, but it happens.
It's the nature of the beast.
Now what do you do?
Of course everybody knows to work
with GDB and there's like for those
who want to do a little more of the
low level stuff with the OpenGL code
can use OpenGL Profiler and so on.
But there's one tool that I would
like to point out today that might
not be as obvious in working with
Square Image and that is D-Trace.
And internally we started using it
for debugging some of our stuff and
had really great results with it.
Now D-Trace on its own is a little
bit more complex so I can't give
you a full overview here but
there's plenty of sessions on
D-Trace that explain all that.
So what is D-Trace good for
in this particular scenario?
With Square Image the nice part is
first of all with D-Trace I can do
this on any kind of client machine.
I don't need to have any kind
of special debug environment.
If I want to analyze the performance
of like who's getting actually
calling my drawing code and which
context and so on I get created.
I mean yeah old school style.
You would have to do that.
Put a lot of printfs in there and
you have to recompile it and try it
on the client's machine and see ah
this is actually what the problem is.
With D-Trace you don't have to do that.
You can simply run on your client
machine and it will with probes
actually show you okay that's
the one who called it and this is
actually how often you got called in.
This is very useful information
particularly for performance debugging
or even like in general even like finding
out what problems might occur in my code.
You need to know what probes do we have.
Core Image has a few of its custom probes
that are specific to Core Image problems.
Since it's an Objective-C language
that we use for the API,
you can find out all the probes
that you need to know in terms
of figuring out who's creating
a filter or who's rendering.
If you don't know them,
you can simply use DTrace and query,
"Okay, give me all the probes
available in this process on a
CI context or on a CI filter,
and I can find out what probes I have and
set a DTrace script that gets triggered
whenever these functions get called."
So this is just a little
appetizer for DTrace and,
yeah, just close to your heart,
this is a good debugging tool
particularly for performance part.
So this was a lot today,
hopefully for you.
And now you want to know, OK,
what can I do next?
First of all,
we have a bunch of sample code.
It's already on your disks.
And the developer examples find
it in the Quartz and Core Image.
In addition, we have on the ADC website,
this was often requested from last year,
our sample code that does
some CI color tracking.
That's also mentioned in the NVIDIA book,
GPU Gems 3.
So you can learn more about something
interesting to do with Core Image.
I would recommend play
around with the sample apps,
concatenate filters,
create interesting effects,
don't see them as a single
instance that you want to use.
And don't just use them
for this image editing,
which is the one part,
but also use them like, you know,
as we've shown,
like these little glow effects in the UI,
so to make your UI a little
bit more interesting.
And if you're in the business
of doing like 2D graphics,
like using quartz drawing,
we've seen some samples of people who
do like very nice stuff and actually
creating just a drawing application
and use actually these CI filters
to give a little bit more real life
scenarios by creating shadows or
blurriness to give you a depth of field.
And that's part of,
if there are more questions,
Alan Schaffer,
who is our contact for you.
You have his email right here.
You find the documentation
on our website.
And with that, I would also like to
point you out to our lab,
which is shortly after
the session downstairs,
so you can come and ask any questions.